README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="http://nestjs.com/" target="blank"><img src="https://nestjs.com/img/logo-small.svg" width="120" alt="Nest Logo" /></a>
</p>

[circleci-image]: https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/nestjs/nest/master?token=abc123def456
[circleci-url]: https://circleci.com/gh/nestjs/nest

  <p align="center">A progressive <a href="http://nodejs.org" target="_blank">Node.js</a> framework for building efficient and scalable server-side applications.</p>
    <p align="center">
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~nestjscore" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@nestjs/core.svg" alt="NPM Version" /></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~nestjscore" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@nestjs/core.svg" alt="Package License" /></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~nestjscore" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@nestjs/common.svg" alt="NPM Downloads" /></a>
<a href="https://circleci.com/gh/nestjs/nest" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/nestjs/nest/master" alt="CircleCI" /></a>
<a href="https://discord.gg/G7Qnnhy" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-online-brightgreen.svg" alt="Discord"/></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/nest#backer" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/nest/backers/badge.svg" alt="Backers on Open Collective" /></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/nest#sponsor" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/nest/sponsors/badge.svg" alt="Sponsors on Open Collective" /></a>
  <a href="https://paypal.me/kamilmysliwiec" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate-PayPal-ff3f59.svg" alt="Donate us"/></a>
    <a href="https://opencollective.com/nest#sponsor"  target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Support%20us-Open%20Collective-41B883.svg" alt="Support us"></a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/nestframework" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/nestframework.svg?style=social&label=Follow" alt="Follow us on Twitter"></a>
</p>
  <!--[![Backers on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/nest/backers/badge.svg)](https://opencollective.com/nest#backer)
  [![Sponsors on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/nest/sponsors/badge.svg)](https://opencollective.com/nest#sponsor)-->

## Description

[Nest](https://github.com/nestjs/nest) framework TypeScript starter repository.

## Project setup

```bash
$ npm install
```

## 🔧 Configuración del entorno local

Antes de ejecutar la aplicación por primera vez, asegúrate de tener configurado tu archivo de entorno:

1. Copia el archivo `.env.template` como `.env`:

```bash
cp .env.template .env
```

2. Completa las variables necesarias en `.env`. Estas incluyen:

- **Conexión a la base de datos PostgreSQL**
- **Secretos para autenticación JWT**
- **Puerto en el que se ejecutará la aplicación**

3. Asegúrate de tener una instancia de PostgreSQL en ejecución que coincida con los valores que definiste en `.env`.  
   Puedes iniciar una base de datos local usando Docker, por ejemplo:

```bash
docker run --name pg-nest \
  -e POSTGRES_USER=postgres \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres \
  -e POSTGRES_DB=postgres \
  -p 5433:5432 \
  -d postgres:15
```

4. Aplica las migraciones de Prisma y ejecuta el seeding si es necesario:

```bash
npx prisma migrate deploy
npx prisma db seed
```

## Compile and run the project

```bash
# development
$ npm run start

# watch mode
$ npm run start:dev

# production mode
$ npm run start:prod
```

## Run tests

```bash
# unit tests
$ npm run test

# e2e tests
$ npm run test:e2e

# test coverage
$ npm run test:cov
```

## Deployment

When you're ready to deploy your NestJS application to production, there are some key steps you can take to ensure it runs as efficiently as possible. Check out the [deployment documentation](https://docs.nestjs.com/deployment) for more information.

If you are looking for a cloud-based platform to deploy your NestJS application, check out [Mau](https://mau.nestjs.com), our official platform for deploying NestJS applications on AWS. Mau makes deployment straightforward and fast, requiring just a few simple steps:

```bash
$ npm install -g mau
$ mau deploy
```

With Mau, you can deploy your application in just a few clicks, allowing you to focus on building features rather than managing infrastructure.

## Resources

Check out a few resources that may come in handy when working with NestJS:

- Visit the [NestJS Documentation](https://docs.nestjs.com) to learn more about the framework.
- For questions and support, please visit our [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/G7Qnnhy).
- To dive deeper and get more hands-on experience, check out our official video [courses](https://courses.nestjs.com/).
- Deploy your application to AWS with the help of [NestJS Mau](https://mau.nestjs.com) in just a few clicks.
- Visualize your application graph and interact with the NestJS application in real-time using [NestJS Devtools](https://devtools.nestjs.com).
- Need help with your project (part-time to full-time)? Check out our official [enterprise support](https://enterprise.nestjs.com).
- To stay in the loop and get updates, follow us on [X](https://x.com/nestframework) and [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/company/nestjs).
- Looking for a job, or have a job to offer? Check out our official [Jobs board](https://jobs.nestjs.com).

## Support

Nest is an MIT-licensed open source project. It can grow thanks to the sponsors and support by the amazing backers. If you'd like to join them, please [read more here](https://docs.nestjs.com/support).

## Stay in touch

- Author - [Kamil Myśliwiec](https://twitter.com/kammysliwiec)
- Website - [https://nestjs.com](https://nestjs.com/)
- Twitter - [@nestframework](https://twitter.com/nestframework)

## License

Nest is [MIT licensed](https://github.com/nestjs/nest/blob/master/LICENSE).

Commit message:

refactor: update Docker configuration and deployment structure
- Add production Dockerfile for optimized builds
- Improve development Dockerfile with better security practices
- Update .env.template with simplified configuration
- Remove docker-compose.yml in favor of external orchestration
- Enhance .dockerignore with more comprehensive patterns
- Update package.json scripts to align with new Docker setup
- Update README with reference to external deployment guide

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="http://nestjs.com/" target="blank"><img src="https://nestjs.com/img/logo-small.svg" width="120" alt="Nest Logo" /></a>
</p>

[circleci-image]: https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/nestjs/nest/master?token=abc123def456
[circleci-url]: https://circleci.com/gh/nestjs/nest

  <p align="center">A progressive <a href="http://nodejs.org" target="_blank">Node.js</a> framework for building efficient and scalable server-side applications.</p>
    <p align="center">
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~nestjscore" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@nestjs/core.svg" alt="NPM Version" /></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~nestjscore" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@nestjs/core.svg" alt="Package License" /></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~nestjscore" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@nestjs/common.svg" alt="NPM Downloads" /></a>
<a href="https://circleci.com/gh/nestjs/nest" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/nestjs/nest/master" alt="CircleCI" /></a>
<a href="https://discord.gg/G7Qnnhy" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-online-brightgreen.svg" alt="Discord"/></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/nest#backer" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/nest/backers/badge.svg" alt="Backers on Open Collective" /></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/nest#sponsor" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/nest/sponsors/badge.svg" alt="Sponsors on Open Collective" /></a>
  <a href="https://paypal.me/kamilmysliwiec" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate-PayPal-ff3f59.svg" alt="Donate us"/></a>
    <a href="https://opencollective.com/nest#sponsor"  target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Support%20us-Open%20Collective-41B883.svg" alt="Support us"></a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/nestframework" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/nestframework.svg?style=social&label=Follow" alt="Follow us on Twitter"></a>
</p>
  <!--[![Backers on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/nest/backers/badge.svg)](https://opencollective.com/nest#backer)
  [![Sponsors on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/nest/sponsors/badge.svg)](https://opencollective.com/nest#sponsor)-->

## Description

[Nest](https://github.com/nestjs/nest) framework TypeScript starter repository.

## Project setup

```bash
$ npm install
```

## 🔧 Configuración del entorno local

Antes de ejecutar la aplicación por primera vez, asegúrate de tener configurado tu archivo de entorno:

1. Copia el archivo `.env.template` como `.env`:

```bash
cp .env.template .env
```

2. Completa las variables necesarias en `.env`. Estas incluyen:

- **Conexión a la base de datos PostgreSQL**
- **Secretos para autenticación JWT**
- **Puerto en el que se ejecutará la aplicación**

3. Asegúrate de tener una instancia de PostgreSQL en ejecución que coincida con los valores que definiste en `.env`.  
   Puedes iniciar una base de datos local usando Docker, por ejemplo:

```bash
docker run --name pg-nest \
  -e POSTGRES_USER=postgres \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres \
  -e POSTGRES_DB=postgres \
  -p 5433:5432 \
  -d postgres:15
```

4. Aplica las migraciones de Prisma y ejecuta el seeding si es necesario:

```bash
npx prisma migrate deploy
npx prisma db seed
```

## Compile and run the project

```bash
# development
$ npm run start

# watch mode
$ npm run start:dev

# production mode
$ npm run start:prod
```

## Run tests

```bash
# unit tests
$ npm run test

# e2e tests
$ npm run test:e2e

# test coverage
$ npm run test:cov
```

## Deployment

For detailed instructions on how to deploy this application to a production environment using Docker, please refer to the main `DEPLOY.md` file in the root of the project.

[**See Deployment Guide**](../statdent-infra/DEPLOY.md)


## Resources

Check out a few resources that may come in handy when working with NestJS:

- Visit the [NestJS Documentation](https://docs.nestjs.com) to learn more about the framework.
- For questions and support, please visit our [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/G7Qnnhy).
- To dive deeper and get more hands-on experience, check out our official video [courses](https://courses.nestjs.com/).
- Deploy your application to AWS with the help of [NestJS Mau](https://mau.nestjs.com) in just a few clicks.
- Visualize your application graph and interact with the NestJS application in real-time using [NestJS Devtools](https://devtools.nestjs.com).
- Need help with your project (part-time to full-time)? Check out our official [enterprise support](https://enterprise.nestjs.com).
- To stay in the loop and get updates, follow us on [X](https://x.com/nestframework) and [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/company/nestjs).
- Looking for a job, or have a job to offer? Check out our official [Jobs board](https://jobs.nestjs.com).

## Support

Nest is an MIT-licensed open source project. It can grow thanks to the sponsors and support by the amazing backers. If you'd like to join them, please [read more here](https://docs.nestjs.com/support).

## Stay in touch

- Author - [Kamil Myśliwiec](https://twitter.com/kammysliwiec)
- Website - [https://nestjs.com](https://nestjs.com/)
- Twitter - [@nestframework](https://twitter.com/nestframework)

## License

Nest is [MIT licensed](https://github.com/nestjs/nest/blob/master/LICENSE).
